Most of the information online about NPD
is unhelpful at best because it lacks a
fundamental understanding of the
defensive adaptations that characterize
pathological narcissism and therefore
it's missing the key ingredient that
everyone needs to understand and heal
from these issues. Empathy. Narcissism
can only be properly understood through
an empathetic frame. The hurt child at
the center of pathological narcissism is
ignored by caregivers, then ignored by
the narcissists themselves, then
misunderstood and ignored by society.
And that's the tragic nature of this
disorder. The false self is so good at
hiding the hurt child that nobody ever
sees them and they go on hurting and
trying not to hurt via problematic
relationship behaviors that sometimes
end up hurting others. When you
experience a collapse into
vulnerability, try to use that as a
window into that central pain, that hurt
child, don't try to get away, ignore, or
punish that part of yourself. That's
what caused the problem in the first
place. Instead, try to get closer. Try
to call upon the grown-up parts of you
to see that child compassionately and
empathetically.
Recognize that these vulnerable feelings
of shame, embarrassment, longing, fear,
depression, loneliness, dependency, and
even rage belong to a hurt Fire.